All right, so we're going to get to
building and optimizing your portfolio for
JavaScript engineers.
I need you to also have the checklist
pulled up if you don't have it.
Now, make sure it's on the repo.
This is what it is this is also this
is a great opportunity like with
these right here, you this is a great
opportunity where you can go and
you can add these as tickets to
a project board for your portfolio.
Instead of having an on the notion
you could just go to do a project
board make tickets of these and
then add it straight,
add it to your portfolio and
then follow that flow as you go.
Well crafted portfolio is essential for
a Javascript engineer or
any type of engineer, really,
to showcase your skills, your experience,
and your projects to potential
employers or clients.
This powerful tool that can help
you stand out in competition and
land your dream job those that
I believe that I've seen it so
many times I've seen people
with amazing portfolios what
my one friend her portfolio was so good
that I shared it with a vice president.
And I was like,
I need to ask her first.
I message people all over the weekend
like to my vice president friend
wants your phone number not gonna do
that like you're gonna have to wait but
I always saw wait till Monday so your
portfolio helps a lot of weight right and
as I say when it comes to
your highlight real being or
your like your like basically your
highlight sheet being your resume.
This is your Picasso this is
the place where you get to really
push in play with like everything
like give your all to this.
It is a project and
a product all in itself.
All right which means even if you
do not have a bunch of fleshed out
projects treating it as a project
within itself can be the project
this is a great example of
the portfolio being the project.
This is one of my students.
She actually, I taught her for
a year and she interned with me for
about three months.
Every aspect of her
portfolio is a project.
So she taught herself how to
make gifts and then she taught,
like she decided she's gonna make her
mouse into this little devil horns.
The thing I absolutely loved it I was like
you're a nerd so whatever emojis right
here her name no she could have this very
small blur and for every level of like or
she was was a work she's done she
has where she can be connected with.
And most of this portfolio ended
up through her as parts or
components from her codepen
that she put together.
Right?
So her my role has always been you're
above the fold content needs to
be eye catching that is for
the people in HR, right an HR person.
If your website is boring,
they're gonna go to the next website.
You want them to pause on the website,
right?
People something that a programmer might
find annoying is not something that
a normal person is gonna find annoying,
right?
So when she put the gif up there,
I was, that's perfect.
That people are gonna love it.
They're gonna have fun with it.
That's how they're gonna see
it as fun as they do these
now this overlay of colors and
it changes into another
type emoji from the devil
horns to just a point.
I was like, yes,
keep them guessing, keep thinking.
Now here is where the meat
of the projects come from.
User story case studies user stories.
When you're doing your projects, this is
why you have your brand document, right?
When you put your mock-ups and
your things like that in there, right?
So when you're doing those projects and
you're in your portfolio,
you're able to say, all right,
here's the project that I did.
So this one, the credit education
of a scalable infrastructure.
Branding, graphic design, web development.
She says each what section it is,
read more, I click,
she goes she talks about a sector
that is in, her challenge,
her role, hurt the tools that she used,
what she's calling it,
the research as you see for
her projects like why do I need credit.
It helped me understand how site users
navigate what fuels their browsing
purchase decisions arrange meetings with
people that fit the target audience as
to how the poor credit for their current
credit rating affects their lifestyle so
she created this entire project out of
this and then for her results she has her
results and she has how we communicate
resources, process, journey map.
This is where she starts telling her mock
ups of how she was going from mobile
first to now desktop level and
how she architected information.
Form first revision community
commitment and conclusion, right?
That's how you do a project.
Like link right on your portfolio.
You do not just here's
my project that's it.
You're like, here's my project.
Here's the motivation and
project yes research I've done for
the project here's tools I use for
the project.
Here is how I start to create.
This howls for the process of
creating project for his views.
Now, here's my project.
This is what I've done.
So that's when I say,
hey you need a project page?
That's what I'm referring to.
So, that creates another page altogether
on your website, on your portfolio.
Yes sir.
>> Just want to mention Jen Kramer has a
free getting started with CSS course where
you actually build a portfolio.
That might be a good place to start.
It's a really nicely designed portfolio.
And then that question for
you from Wagner.
If you are more mid level or even senior,
what should you showcase in a portfolio?
>> If you're more mid level or senior you
should showcase the difference between
a junior and a mid level or
singing person is impact right?
So you should showcase.so your projects
and links you showcase should be about.
The impact,
how are you like StackOverflow?
Answering questions on their
mentoring things of that nature,
like where you're volunteering.
Those are when I'm looking at a senior or
junior,
I'm looking at how are they passing
information down to other people.
That's when I'm looking at
a person who's Senior MIT.
I'm looking at a junior, I'm not expecting
a junior to have anything on their
portfolio that showcases that they've
been giving back to the community?
If you're men and senior, I am absolutely
expecting like stuff to showcase that
you've been giving back to the community
or you've been finding ways to like
amplify your work to have greater
impact beyond just you and
that's what because that's
where I'm looking for.
For a mentioned senior person is, impact.
I'm looking for, hey, how are you
making the tech world tech community,
better for people that are left and
right at you?
All right?
>> Since I'm in this process of
hiring engineer, or senior engineers,
a lot of times I'll look for something
super nerdy, like a blog post that
that shows that you've done deep
thinking and a part of your craft.
>> That's what I would say by giving back
like a blog post or giving back right?
I am flattening the educational curve for
someone else.
Right?
>> When you talk
about like these like super nerdy
blockbuster people In the highlighting of
revenue seniors like we're gonna be
able to select topics usually people do?
>> Yeah that's a good question
I think if it's specifically
around front end engineering
things cuz like the event loop or
you know design systems leading
a team components whatever something.
>> I like design his front end I want
to talk about design systems wanna
talk about accessibility like
especially in a viewpoint of like
Front are how front end has moved
beyond just the front end of the web of
the Computer GUI to like hardware
things of that nature those are like
that's stuff that I'm looking at
when it comes to like mid senior.
Because Front end isn't just front
end has, how it is now, right?
Or even more like DevOps, right?
Justin Kramer,
Jonathan Kramer and Schuster,
they both used to talk to colleagues of
mine they both do a lot of work in or
did a lot of work in like
what they call DevOps.
This was DevOps for the front end, and
they created this whole little term for
this whole community.
About people who are, that started
with this whole analogy of two
front ends going to a bar, and they
have absolutely nothing to talk about.
Because the UI engineer
has nothing in common with
the person who does nothing but
work on Webpac stuff all day, right?
And how those two have become a front
end and then a middle of front end and
how that so that divergence of
front end has started to happen.
Like things like that.
That's that's nerding out.
Like that's very nerdy to me, right?
Like, okay, I didn't even think about how
now front end development has become so
big that you can have two front ends or
three front ends in a room, and they have
absolutely nothing to talk about,
because they're doing three different.
Types of running work on the front end,
right?
So- Yeah, definitely when you
get to those senior level roles,
you wanna see something that's
not just about a framework.
It could be some really nerdy aspect
about a framework, but ideally,
it's something more about Universal
like about the browser browser
API's request animation frame
something like that where it's you
know broadly applicable knowledge payment
>> API in the browser things like
that which is I think Chrome It has
a payment API now, and people don't,
have yet
to see very little writing on it, so.
I like how Will's sentence talks
about technical communication,
the ability to take a topic and distill
it into either words or a video or, or
just because that shows that you're gonna
be able to do that with your teammates.
>> Yes, that's absolutely, that's a great
analogy, yeah, technical communication.